p8105_hw2_zv2138.md, before:

p8105\_hw2\_zv2138
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.1 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.5     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.1.2     ✓ dplyr   1.0.7
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.3     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   2.0.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.1

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(readxl)
```

# Problem 1

## Read and clean the Mr. Trash Wheel Sheet

``` r
trash_wheel = read_excel("./Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", sheet = 1, range = "A2:N408") %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  mutate(
    sports_balls = round(sports_balls, digits = 0)
  ) %>% 
  filter(!(str_detect(month, "Total")))
```

## Read and Clean Precipitation data for 2018 and 2019

``` r
Rain_2019 = read_excel("./Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", sheet = 4, range = "A2:B14") %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    mutate(
      year = 2019
    )
Rain_2018 = read_excel("./Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", sheet = 5, range = "A2:B14") %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    mutate(
       year = 2018
    )
```

Commit message:

Problem 1 - mini paragraph write up on the 2 data sets

p8105_hw2_zv2138.md, after:

p8105\_hw2\_zv2138
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.1 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.5     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.1.2     ✓ dplyr   1.0.7
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.3     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   2.0.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.1

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(readxl)
```

# Problem 1

## Read and clean the Mr. Trash Wheel Sheet

``` r
trash_wheel = read_excel("./Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", sheet = 1, range = "A2:N408") %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  mutate(
    sports_balls = round(sports_balls, digits = 0)
  ) %>% 
  filter(!(str_detect(month, "Total")))
```

## Read and Clean Precipitation data for 2018 and 2019

``` r
rain_2019 = read_excel("./Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", sheet = 4, range = "A2:B14") %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    na.omit %>% 
    mutate(
      year = 2019
    )
rain_2018 = read_excel("./Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", sheet = 5, range = "A2:B14",) %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    mutate(
       year = 2018
    )
```

## Combining Precipitation data sets

``` r
rain_data = bind_rows(rain_2018, rain_2019) %>% 
  mutate(
    month = month.name[month]
  )
```

Mr. Trash Wheel filled 344 dumpsters from 2014-05-16 to 2019-06-17. In
total 1122.45 tons of trash was collected during this time period.
Mr. Trash Wheel collected various types of trash including
plastic\_bottles, polystyrene, cigarette\_butts, glass\_bottles,
grocery\_bags, chip\_bags, sports\_balls. In fact the median number of
sports balls that could be found in a dumpster in 2019 was 8.5.

Precipitation data was also collected over the years 2018 and 2019. Over
the two years a total of 87 inches of rain fell. In 2018 alone 70.33.

# Problem 2
